docs/BOOTSTRAP_TESTING.md, before:

# SecureOS Bootstrap Testing

## Boot Sector Smoke Test

This repository includes a minimal x86 boot sector validation to verify local build tooling and QEMU execution.

### Run

```bash
./build/scripts/test.sh hello_boot
```

### What it checks

- `nasm` can assemble a boot sector binary
- output image is exactly 512 bytes with boot signature
- `qemu-system-x86_64` boots the image headlessly
- boot code exits through `isa-debug-exit` on I/O port `0xF4`
- serial output contains `SecureOS boot sector OK`
- structured markers are present:
  - `TEST:START:hello_boot`
  - `TEST:PASS:hello_boot`
  - no `TEST:FAIL:hello_boot:<reason>` marker is present

### Debug-exit code mapping

Boot test binaries should write one byte to debug-exit (`out 0xF4, al`).
`run_qemu.sh` maps those semantic codes to QEMU process return codes using:

- `EXIT_PASS = 0x10` → expected QEMU return code `0x21` (`33`)
- `EXIT_FAIL = 0x11` → expected QEMU return code `0x23` (`35`)

The harness treats pass/fail based on debug-exit return mapping, not timeout behavior.

### Expected result

The script prints QEMU serial output and ends with:

```text
QEMU_PASS:hello_boot
```

Commit message:

Add hello_boot negative fixture and harness support

docs/BOOTSTRAP_TESTING.md, after:

# SecureOS Bootstrap Testing

## Boot Sector Smoke Test

This repository includes a minimal x86 boot sector validation to verify local build tooling and QEMU execution.

### Run

```bash
./build/scripts/test.sh hello_boot
```

### What it checks

- `nasm` can assemble a boot sector binary
- output image is exactly 512 bytes with boot signature
- `qemu-system-x86_64` boots the image headlessly
- boot code exits through `isa-debug-exit` on I/O port `0xF4`
- serial output contains `SecureOS boot sector OK`
- structured markers are present:
  - `TEST:START:hello_boot`
  - `TEST:PASS:hello_boot`
  - no `TEST:FAIL:hello_boot:<reason>` marker is present

### Debug-exit code mapping

Boot test binaries should write one byte to debug-exit (`out 0xF4, al`).
`run_qemu.sh` maps those semantic codes to QEMU process return codes using:

- `EXIT_PASS = 0x10` → expected QEMU return code `0x21` (`33`)
- `EXIT_FAIL = 0x11` → expected QEMU return code `0x23` (`35`)

The harness treats pass/fail based on debug-exit return mapping, not timeout behavior.

### Negative-path fixture

Run intentional failing fixture validation:

```bash
./build/scripts/test.sh hello_boot_negative
```

Expected markers for this fixture:

- `TEST:START:hello_boot_fail`
- `TEST:FAIL:hello_boot_fail:intentional-fixture`
- no pass marker

Even though the fixture exits with `EXIT_FAIL`, the harness reports success when the failure is correctly detected and prints:

```text
QEMU_PASS:hello_boot_fail
```
